# This is the title of a proposal

It will involve FRET, biological polymers, single-molecule
confinement, and some interesting data analysis

## Background

 * early biophysical measurements were largely bulk measurements
 * utility of single molecule view
   * 
 * fluorescence techniques have enabled 

TODO: say we are focusing on B-DNA

The flexibility of DNA and RNA play a pivotal role in their
function. It is well-known that these polymers are bent on wide range of
length-scales during their many functions within the cell.
Kornberg demonstrated that chromatin is consists of DNA organized
around histone cores, forcing the polymer into curvatures on the order
of nanometers[@Kornberg1974]. When unpacked from chromatin,
transcription enzymes are known to force DNA into tight
loops[@Nelson2012]. Finally, virii are known to pack an
enormous a quantity of DNA into capsids as small as tens of nanometers
in diameter.

The freely-jointed chain model views the polymer as $n$ stiff
links each of length $l$[@Benham2005] with no directional
correlation. As the end-to-end distance $R$ of the molecule is given
by a sum of independent variates, we find that,
$$\mean{R^2} = \mathcal{N}\{0, n l\}$$

In the limit where the polymer is much longer than the monomer length,
however, we might try to view this material as a continuum
by taking $l \rightarrow 0$. Considering small bends of a isotropic
polymer (*e.g.* with is no energetically preferable direction for
bending), we see that the free energy is dominated by a quadratic term
in the bending curvature $\kappa$ (as $\kappa=0$ defines the
system's equilibrium),
$$F_\mathrm{bend} = \frac{1}{2} a \kappa^2$$
It can be shown that under this model the angular correlation between the
tangents of two sections of polymer separated by length $d$ is given by,
$$ \langle \cos\theta \rangle = e^{-d T / a} $$



[@Kratky1949], a distinct
model which describes a continuous polymer. Here 


TODO: [@Landau1973, ยง127]
TODO: Introduce $l_p$

Various extensions have been built around this structure ranging from
the ad-hoc addition of empirical terms[@Wiggins2006] to the 
reintroduction of discrete links[@Padinhateeri2013].

In addition, there are number

TODO: Discuss early measurements of $l_p$

Models of polymer flexibility

Early experiments on long DNA
 * @Shore1981

Temperature dependence
 * @Geggier2011

While the continuum models above hold well in the case of moderate
bending of long polymers, there is reason to suspect they might fail
in shorter polymers. Here the contour length of the polymer is
approaches the length of its individual monomers. In this regime it is
reasonable to expect that model consisting of jointed chain links of
finite length would be more appropriate than, e.g., the worm-like chain.

## The flexibility of short DNA

Despite a number of studies, numerous questions surrounding the
flexibility characteristics of short dsDNA oligos remain open. In
particular, several experiments have suggested that these short
polymers are substantially more flexible than predicted by the
worm-like chain model.

This is perhaps most directly seen in a experiment by Wiggins *et al.*
which imaged with atomic force microscopy dsDNA adsorbed on a
surface[@Wiggins2006]. Here large-angle bends were seen several times
more often than predicted by the worm-like chain model.

A common tool for the characterization of polymer flexibility is the
cyclization experiment[@Shore1981].
In this experiment, a double-stranded DNA with
complementary single-stranded ends is placed in solution at finite
temperature. These molecules are in dynamic equilibrium: thermal
fluctuations will drive the ends of some molecules to find one another
and bind, temporarily holding the molecule in a ring-like (cyclized)
conformation.

With the addition of a ligase enzyme one can permanantly freeze the
cyclized subpopulation in their state, in effect capturing a snapshot
of the state of the population. The cyclized subpopulation can then be
isolated through electrophoresis and counted to yield a cyclization
efficiency $j$, a quantity[@Jacobson1950] which can be computed for a
variety of models of flexibility.

<!-- Cloutier -->
Excess flexibility of short DNA was first noted in 2004 by Cloutier *et
al*[@Cloutier2004]. Cloutier measured cyclization of dsDNA around
100bp in length and observed that these polymers cyclized between two
and five orders of magnitude more often than expected.

<!-- Du -->
This claim was quickly refuted by similar a cyclization experiment
which found dsDNA of similar length to be in remarkable agreement with
the worm-like chain theory[@Du2005]. Further attempts to reproduce
Cloutier's result lead the authors to conclude that the high
cyclization rates observed in his experiment were due to the unusually
high ligase concentration used; a precondition to the applicability of
the theory backing the cyclization technique is that the rate of
ligation be much slower than the rate of dissociation.

<!-- Mathew-Fenn -->
It did not take long, however, for claims of enhanced flexiblity to
resurface. In 2008, Mathew-Fenn *et al.* reported that small-angle X-ray
diffraction studies of shorter dsDNA saw a end-to-end distance
variance 13 times higher larger than predicted. In this experiment a
roughly dsDNA oligos from 10 to 35 bp long were labelled on both ends
with gold nanoparticles. Scattering due to the nanoparticles served as
a probe for the end-to-end distance of the polymer.

<!-- Mathewe-Fenn refutations -->
While the authors pointed to a cooperative stretching process as the
cause for this enhanced variance, follow-up papers point to the
excluded volume of the nanoparticles themselves[@Becker2009] or
bending fluctuations[@Mazur2009] as the cause for the inconsistency.
Furthermore, similar X-ray measurements on longer DNA oligos found no
appreciable deviation from worm-like chain behavior, noting that the
excluded volume of the probe is responsible for any
excess[@Mastroianni2009].

<!-- Mathewe-Fenn response -->
A follow-up from Mathew-Fenn extended the experiment with more oligo
lengths and an additional linker configuration, modulating oligo
rigidity through ionic strength[@MathewFenn2009]. In light of this
data, they argue that that the original cooperative stretching
hypothesis is the simplest explanation commensurate with
observation. They still note that none of the models under
consideration are in agreement within experimental error, a point
which they blame on an unaccounted for dependence on base sequence.

<!-- Vafabakhsh -->
Further support for enhanced flexibility has come from a recent
experiment by Vafabakhsh using single-pair FRET to directly measure
cyclization binding/unbinding events[@Vafabakhsh2012]. By measuring
energy transfer between two terminal fluorescent dyes, the authors 
infer binding and unbinding rates allowing nearly direct measurement
of $j$. With this technique, they measured cyclization of oligos
between 67 and 106 bp in length to find a length dependence
unexplained by the worm-like chain model.

<!-- Vologodskii -->
Finally, Vologodskii
[@Vologodskii2013]

<!-- Mazur -->
TODO: @Mazur2013

TODO: Mention @Podgornik2006
TODO: @Czapla2006
TODO: @Chen2010
TODO: @Mills1999
TODO: @Yuan2008

### Explaining large angle bends

TODO: @Crick1975
TODO: @Wiggins2006
TODO: @Wiggins2006a
TODO: @Spiriti2012
TODO: @Padinhateeri2013
TODO: @Demurtas2009?
TODO: @Mazur2007

## Perturbed short DNA

### Related Work

 * @Wozniak2008

